Fix incorrect field name (#813)
redpanda-data/documentation: modules/get-started/pages/licensing/add-license-redpanda/kubernetes.adoc

= Add an Enterprise Edition License to Redpanda in Kubernetes
:description: Learn how to add or update a Redpanda Enterprise Edition license in a Kubernetes environment.
:env-kubernetes: true

> To enable xref:get-started:licensing/overview.adoc[enterprise features for Redpanda Self-Managed], it must have an Enterprise Edition license. This guide outlines how to apply or update an Enterprise Edition license for Redpanda Self-Managed in a Kubernetes environment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To enable xref:get-started:licensing/overview.adoc[enterprise features for Redpanda Self-Managed], you must have an Enterprise Edition license. This guide outlines how to apply or update an Enterprise Edition license for Redpanda Self-Managed in a Kubernetes environment.
```

== Prerequisites

> You must have an Enterprise Edition license. If you don't have a license yet, https://www.redpanda.com/contact[request one^].

Reviewer: Same comment as for Linux page on link text.

> You must have an Enterprise Edition license. If you don't have a license yet, https://www.redpanda.com/contact[request one^].

Author: ```suggestion
You must have an Enterprise Edition license. https://www.redpanda.com/contact[Request a license^] if you don't have one already.
```

== Add a new license

Redpanda supports the following ways to apply a new license:

- <<secret, Use a Kubernetes Secret to store the license>>.
- <<inline, Provide the license string inline in your Helm values or manifest file>>.

> - <<console, Use Redpanda Console to upload the license to Redpanda>>.

Reviewer: anchor link is missing from the console heading.

[[secret]]
=== Use a Kubernetes Secret

You can store the license in a Kubernetes Secret and reference it in your Helm values or manifest file.

. Download your license file (`redpanda.license`) and create a Kubernetes Secret:
+
[,bash]
----
kubectl create secret generic redpanda-license
--from-file=license=./redpanda.license
--namespace <namespace>
----
+
This command creates a Secret named `redpanda-license` in the specified namespace, containing the license file.

> . Reference the secret:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Reference the Secret:
```
For consistency, should we say Kubernetes Secret in full each time?

```

--set::
+
[,bash]
----
helm upgrade --install redpanda redpanda/redpanda \
  --namespace <namespace> \
  --create-namespace \
  --set enterprise.licenseSecretRef.name=redpanda-license \
  --set enterprise.licenseSecretRef.key=license
----

====
--
======

[[inline]]
=== Provide the license inline

If you prefer to provide the license string directly, you can do so as follows:

[tabs]
======
Helm + Operator::
+
--
.`redpanda-cluster.yaml`
[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: cluster.redpanda.com/v1alpha2
kind: Redpanda
metadata:
  name: redpanda
spec:
  chartRef: {}
  clusterSpec:
    enterprise:
      license: <license-key>
----

```bash
kubectl apply -f redpanda-cluster.yaml --namespace <namespace>
```

--
Helm::
+
--

[tabs]
====
--values::
+
.`redpanda-license.yaml`
[source,yaml]
----
enterprise:
  license: <license-key>
----
+
```bash
helm upgrade --install redpanda redpanda/redpanda --namespace <namespace> --create-namespace \
  --values redpanda-license.yaml --reuse-values
```

--set::
+
[,bash]
----
helm upgrade --install redpanda redpanda/redpanda \
  --namespace <namespace> \
  --create-namespace \
  --set enterprise.license=<license-key>
----

====
--
======

> If neither the Secret nor the license string is provided, Redpanda looks for the license at `/etc/redpanda/redpanda.license`.

Reviewer: Same comment as above about consistency around Kubernetes Secret.... The are other instances on this page....

> If neither the Kubernetes Secret nor the license string is provided, Redpanda looks for the license at `/etc/redpanda/redpanda.license`.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> === Use Redpanda Console

Author: ```suggestion
[[console]]
=== Use Redpanda Console
```

include::get-started:partial$licensing/check-license.adoc[]

== Update an existing license

The process for updating a license depends on how it was originally applied:

- <<secret-update, Update the Kubernetes Secret>>.
- <<inline-update, Update the license string inline in your Helm values or manifest file>>.
- xref:console:ui/add-license.adoc[Use Redpanda Console]

When a new license is uploaded, enterprise features in Redpanda Self-Managed are unlocked immediately without requiring a cluster restart. However, to unlock enterprise features in Redpanda Console, you must restart the Redpanda Console instance.

[[secret-update]]
=== Update the Kubernetes Secret

If the license is provided through a Kubernetes Secret, follow these steps to update it:

. Download the updated license file and overwrite the existing `redpanda.license` file.

. Delete the existing Secret:
+
[,bash]
----
kubectl delete secret redpanda-license --namespace <namespace>
----

. Create a new Secret with the updated license:
+
[,bash]
----
kubectl create secret generic redpanda-license \
  --from-file=license=./redpanda.license \
  --namespace <namespace>
----
+

> NOTE: The Redpanda brokers do not need to be restarted after updating the license secret. The new license will automatically take effect.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The new license automatically takes effect. You do not need to restart the Redpanda brokers. 
```

. Check the status of new license to make sure it was successfully applied:
+
[,bash]
----
rpk cluster license info
----
+
The output displays the following details:
+
----
Organization:    Organization the license was generated for.
Type:            Type of license.
Expires:         Expiration date of the license.
Version:         License schema version.
----

. If you use Redpanda Console, delete the Redpanda Console Pods to force Redpanda Console to reload the updated license:
+
[,bash]
----
kubectl delete pod $(kubectl get pod --namespace <namespace> | grep redpanda-console | awk '{print $1}') --namespace <namespace>
----

[[inline-update]]
=== Update the license inline

> If you applied the license inline, update it by following these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you applied the license inline, follow these steps to update it:
```

:env-kubernetes: true

To enable xref:get-started:licensing/overview.adoc[enterprise features for Redpanda Self-Managed], you must have an Enterprise Edition license. This guide outlines how to apply or update an Enterprise Edition license for Redpanda Self-Managed in a Kubernetes environment.

== Prerequisites

You must have an Enterprise Edition license. https://www.redpanda.com/contact[Request a license^] if you don't have one already.

== Add a new license

Redpanda supports the following ways to apply a new license:

- <<secret, Use a Kubernetes Secret to store the license>>.
- <<inline, Provide the license string inline in your Helm values or manifest file>>.
- <<console, Use Redpanda Console to upload the license to Redpanda>>.

[[secret]]
=== Use a Kubernetes Secret

You can store the license in a Kubernetes Secret and reference it in your Helm values or manifest file.

. Download your license file (`redpanda.license`) and create a Kubernetes Secret:
+
[,bash]
----
kubectl create secret generic redpanda-license
--from-file=license=./redpanda.license
--namespace <namespace>
----
+

> This command creates a Secret named `redpanda-license` in the specified namespace, containing the license file.

Author: ```suggestion
This command creates a Kubernetes Secret named `redpanda-license` in the specified namespace, containing the license file.
```

```

--set::
+
[,bash]
----
helm upgrade --install redpanda redpanda/redpanda \
  --namespace <namespace> \
  --create-namespace \
  --set enterprise.licenseSecretRef.name=redpanda-license \
  --set enterprise.licenseSecretRef.key=license
----

====
--
======

[[inline]]
=== Provide the license inline

If you prefer to provide the license string directly, you can do so as follows:

[tabs]
======
Helm + Operator::
+
--
.`redpanda-cluster.yaml`
[,yaml]
----
apiVersion: cluster.redpanda.com/v1alpha2
kind: Redpanda
metadata:
  name: redpanda
spec:
  chartRef: {}
  clusterSpec:
    enterprise:
      license: <license-key>
----

```bash
kubectl apply -f redpanda-cluster.yaml --namespace <namespace>
```

--
Helm::
+
--

[tabs]
====
--values::
+
.`redpanda-license.yaml`
[source,yaml]
----
enterprise:
  license: <license-key>
----
+
```bash
helm upgrade --install redpanda redpanda/redpanda --namespace <namespace> --create-namespace \
  --values redpanda-license.yaml --reuse-values
```

--set::
+
[,bash]
----
helm upgrade --install redpanda redpanda/redpanda \
  --namespace <namespace> \
  --create-namespace \
  --set enterprise.license=<license-key>
----

====
--
======

> If neither the Secret nor the license string is provided, Redpanda looks for the license at `/etc/redpanda/redpanda.license`.

Author: ```suggestion
If neither the Kubernetes Secret nor the license string is provided, Redpanda looks for the license at `/etc/redpanda/redpanda.license`.
```

> If neither the Kubernetes Secret nor the license string is provided, Redpanda looks for the license at `/etc/redpanda/redpanda.license`.

Reviewer 2: This is news/surprising to me. I was under the impression that license setting had to be user initiated.

This feels a bit out of place due to the lack of an example (I don't suggest adding one as it'll be pretty gnarly and I can't vouch for the exact behavior) but it is nice to know.

Reviewer 2: I noticed the `linux` docs say that _`rpk`_ looks for the license in `/etc/redpanda/redpanda.license`. Should this just be removed? (I had so much hope)

Author: Thanks - good catch 😄

include::get-started:partial$licensing/check-license.adoc[]

== Update an existing license

The process for updating a license depends on how it was originally applied:

- <<secret-update, Update the Kubernetes Secret>>.
- <<inline-update, Update the license string inline in your Helm values or manifest file>>.
- xref:console:ui/add-license.adoc[Use Redpanda Console]

When a new license is uploaded, enterprise features in Redpanda Self-Managed are unlocked immediately without requiring a cluster restart. However, to unlock enterprise features in Redpanda Console, you must restart the Redpanda Console instance.

[[secret-update]]
=== Update the Kubernetes Secret

If the license is provided through a Kubernetes Secret, follow these steps to update it:

. Download the updated license file and overwrite the existing `redpanda.license` file.

. Delete the existing Secret:
+
[,bash]
----
kubectl delete secret redpanda-license --namespace <namespace>
----

. Create a new Secret with the updated license:
+
[,bash]
----
kubectl create secret generic redpanda-license \
  --from-file=license=./redpanda.license \
  --namespace <namespace>
----
+

> NOTE: The new license automatically takes effect. You do not need to restart the Redpanda brokers. 

Reviewer 2: This isn't true in helm AFAIK because the license is set via the post install/upgrade job which requires the user to run `helm upgrade` to re-trigger.

I don't think this is true for the operator either as updating the license in place wouldn't trigger a reconciliation.

Have you observed different?

Author: Oh you're right. This is only true if you use Console (or the admin API, which is what I think `rpk cluster license set` uses).

> NOTE: The new license automatically takes effect. You do not need to restart the Redpanda brokers. 

Author: ```suggestion
```

> NOTE: The new license automatically takes effect. You do not need to restart the Redpanda brokers. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: The new license takes effect automatically. You do not need to restart the Redpanda brokers. 
```
